# Robust testing in GLMs, by sign-flipping score contributions

Provides robust tests for testing in GLMs, by sign-flipping score
contributions. The tests are often robust against overdispersion,
heteroscedasticity and, in some cases, ignored nuisance variables.

## Usage

``` r
flipscores(formula, family, data, score_type = "standardized",
n_flips = 5000, alternative = "two.sided", id = NULL,
seed = NULL, to_be_tested = NULL, flips = NULL,
precompute_flips=TRUE, ...)
```

## Arguments

- formula:

  see `glm` function. It can also be a model (usually generated by a
  call to `glm`); in this case, any other glm-related parameter (e.g.
  `family, data, etc.`) are discarded, the function will make use of the
  ones used to generate the model. (i.e. `formula`, `family`, `data`,
  etc) are not considered. It is `NULL` by default (i.e. not used).

- family:

  see `glm` function.

- data:

  see `glm` function.

- score_type:

  The type of score that is computed. It can be "standardized"
  "orthogonalized", "effective" or "basic". Both "orthogonalized" and
  "effective" take into account the nuisance estimation and they provide
  the same test statistic. In case of small samples "effective score"
  might have a slight anti-conservative behaviour. "standardized
  effective score" gives a solution for this issue. "orthogonalized" has
  a similar intent, note however that in case of a big model matrix, it
  may be slow.

- n_flips:

  The number of random flips of the score contributions. Overwritten
  with the `nrow(flips)` when `flips` is not `NULL` (see parameter
  `flips` for more details). When `n_flips` is equal or larger than the
  maximum number of possible flips (i.e. n^2), all possible flips are
  performed.

- alternative:

  It can be "greater", "less" or "two.sided" (default)

- id:

  a `vector` identifying the clustered observations. If `NULL` (default)
  observations are assumed to be independent. If `id` is not `NULL`,
  only `score_type=="effective"` is allowed, yet.

- seed:

  `NULL` by default.

- to_be_tested:

  vector of indices or names of coefficients of the glm model to be
  tested (it is faster than computing every scores and p-values of
  course).

- flips:

  matrix fo +1 or -1, the matrix has `n_flips` rows and n (number of
  observations) columns

- precompute_flips:

  `TRUE` by default. Overwritten if `flips` is not `NULL`. If `FALSE`
  the matrix of flips is not computed and the flips are made
  'on-the-fly' before computing the test statistics; it may be usefull
  when `flips` is very large (see parameter `flips` for more details).

- ...:

  see `glm` function.

## Value

an object of class `flipscores`. See also its methods
(`summary.flipscores`, `anova.flipscores`, `print.flipscores`).

## Details

`flipscores` borrows the same parameters from function `glm` (and
`glm.nb`). See these helps for more details about parameters such as
`formula`, `data`, `family`. Note: in order to use Negative Binomial
family, `family` reference must have quotes (i.e. `family="negbinom"`).
Furthermore, `flipscores` object contains two extra elements: `scores` –
i.e. a matrix of n score contributions, one column for each tested
coefficient – and `Tspace` – i.e. a matrix of size `n_flips` times
`ncol(scores)`. The fist row of `Tspace` contains column-wise the test
statistics generated by randomly flipping the score contributions, each
column refers to the same column of `scores`, the vector of observed
test statistics (i.e. no flips) is in the first row of `Tspace`.

## References

"Robust testing in generalized linear models by sign-flipping score
contributions" by J.Hemerik, J.Goeman and L.Finos.

## See also

[`anova.flipscores`](https://livioivil.github.io/flipscores/reference/anova.flipscores.md),
[`summary.flipscores`](https://livioivil.github.io/flipscores/reference/flipscores-method.md),
`flip`,
[`confint.flipscores`](https://livioivil.github.io/flipscores/reference/confint.flipscores.md)

## Author

Livio Finos, Riccardo De Santis, Jesse Hemerik and Jelle Goeman

## Examples

``` r
set.seed(1)
dt=data.frame(X=rnorm(20),
   Z=factor(rep(LETTERS[1:3],length.out=20)))
dt$Y=rpois(n=20,lambda=exp((dt$Z=="C") + 2*dt$X))
mod=flipscores(Y~Z+X,data=dt,family="gaussian",n_flips=1000)
summary(mod)
#> 
#> Call:
#> flipscores(formula = Y ~ Z + X, family = "gaussian", data = dt, 
#>     n_flips = 1000)
#> 
#> Coefficients:
#>             Estimate    Score Std. Error  z value Part. Cor Pr(>|z|)    
#> (Intercept)  3.56308  4.01931   16.04623  0.25048     0.061    0.058 .  
#> ZB           1.03516  0.63620   10.65168  0.05973     0.014    0.780    
#> ZC           3.67684  2.01381   10.59661  0.19004     0.046    0.197    
#> X            6.93645 12.51367   34.91574  0.35840     0.087    0.001 ***
#> ---
#> Signif. codes:  0 ‘***’ 0.001 ‘**’ 0.01 ‘*’ 0.05 ‘.’ 0.1 ‘ ’ 1
#> 
#> (Dispersion parameter for gaussian family taken to be 34.21333)
#> 
#>     Null deviance: 1364.55  on 19  degrees of freedom
#> Residual deviance:  547.41  on 16  degrees of freedom
#> AIC: 132.95
#> 
#> Number of Fisher Scoring iterations: 2
#> 

# Equivalent to:
model=glm(Y~Z+X,data=dt,family="poisson")
mod2=flipscores(model)
#> Error in model.frame.default(formula = Y ~ Z + X, data = dt, drop.unused.levels = TRUE): 'data' must be a data.frame, environment, or list
summary(mod2)
#> Error: object 'mod2' not found
```
